Federal Communications Commission
Washington, D.C. 20554
April 19, 2012
 DA 12-621
Mr. John Malyar
Telcordia Technologies, Inc.
1 Telcordia Drive/RRC 4F604
Piscataway, NJ 08854
Dear Mr. Malyar,
Approval is hereby granted for Telcordia Technologies, Inc. (Telcordia) to operate its “TV bands database 
system” to provide commercial service to the public within Nottoway County, Virginia.  This database 
system will provide support for unlicensed radio devices that transmit on unused channels in the spectrum 
bands used by broadcast television (TV bands devices).  The Nottoway County project will use an 
Adaptrum radio system together with the Telcordia database to provide high-speed broadband service at 
20 sites that serve rural schools and households.
The Office of Engineering and Technology (OET) approved Telcordia’s database system for operation by 
letter dated March 26, 2012, DA 12-465.  In approving this system, OET stated that Telcordia could not 
provide service to the public until the FCC’s system for registering venues where large numbers of 
unlicensed wireless microphone’s are used is operational and affected parties have an opportunity to 
register their venues to obtain protection.  However, OET also stated that Telcordia could request 
approval to commence database operations in limited geographic areas prior to the availability of the 
FCC’s unlicensed wireless microphone registration system.  OET indicated that, for such areas, it would 
accept and process any requests for registration of venues where large numbers of unlicensed 
microphones are to be used and then direct Telcordia to create a registration record for the venue.
We find that Telcordia’s request to operate its service within the limited area of Nottoway County, 
Virginia is consistent with the plan and requirements set forth in OET’s approval of the Telcordia 
database system.  We therefore will permit Telcordia to operate its TV bands database system to provide 
service to TV bands devices within the geographic boundaries of that county.  In the event that a party 
seeks to register a venue before the FCC’s wireless microphone registration system is operational, it may 
submit a registration request directly to OET at TVWSinfo@fcc.gov.  If OET approves such a 
registration, it will direct Telcordia to create a registration record for the venue.  The registrant will then 
need to access its registration record on the Telcordia database system to enter scheduling and channel 
information for the venue.  We will issue a public notice to inform potential registrants of the procedure 
for applying to register such venues.  As specified by the rules and our March 26, 2012 approval letter, all 
TV bands devices used with the Telcordia database system must be certified by the Commission. 
Sincerely,
Julius P. Knapp
Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology
cc: Haiyun Tang, Adaptrum 
