PUBLIC NOTICE
Federal Communications Commission
445 12th St., S.W.
Washington, D.C. 20554
News Media Information 202 / 418-0500
Internet: http://www.fcc.gov
TTY: 1-888-835-5322
DA 12-620
Released: April 19, 2012 
Office of Engineering and Technology Permits Telcordia Technologies, Inc. to Provide TV 
Bands Database Service in Nottoway County, Virginia
ET Docket No. 04-186
The Commission’s Office of Engineering and Technology (OET) announces that it is permitting 
Telcordia Technologies, Inc. to begin providing TV bands database service to the public in Nottoway 
County, Virginia.1 This database system will support unlicensed radio devices that transmit on unused 
channels in the spectrum bands used by broadcast television (TV white spaces, or TVWS).  The Nottoway 
County project will use a recently certificated Adaptrum TV bands radio system together with the 
Telcordia database to provide high-speed broadband service at 20 sites that serve rural schools and 
households.  The Adaptrum “ACRS” device was granted certification on April 19, 2012 with FCC ID 
“A2UACRS10.”
OET approved Telcordia’s database system for operation by letter dated March 26, 2012, DA 12-
465.  In approving this system, OET stated that Telcordia could not provide service to the public until the 
FCC’s system for registering venues where large numbers of unlicensed wireless microphone’s are used 
is operational and affected parties have an opportunity to register their venues to obtain protection.  That 
system is expected to be available in the near future.  However, OET also stated that Telcordia could 
request approval to commence database operations in limited geographic areas prior to the availability of 
the FCC’s unlicensed wireless microphone registration system.  For such areas, OET indicated that it 
would accept and process any requests for registration of venues where large numbers of unlicensed 
microphones are be used and then direct Telcordia to create a registration record for the venue.
OET finds that Telcordia’s request to operate its service within the limited area of Nottoway 
County, Virginia is consistent with the plan and requirements set forth in OET’s approval of the Telcordia 
database system.  It therefore is permitting Telcordia to operate its TV bands database system to provide 
service to TV bands devices within the geographic boundaries of that county, subject to the following 
procedures for registering unlicensed wireless microphones.  
Until the FCC registration system is operational, parties seeking to obtain protection for venues 
where large numbers of unlicensed wireless microphones are used must submit registration requests 
directly to OET at TVWSinfo@fcc.gov.  The “subject” line in the messages for such requests must begin 
with the phrase: “[Wireless Microphone Registration],” followed by the entity’s full name.  For example: 
[Wireless Microphone Registration] Widget Corporation.  If OET approves the registration, it will inform 
  
1 See Letter to Mr. John Malyar of Telcordia Technologies, Inc. dated April 19, 2012. This letter is available in the 
Commission’s EDOCS records system under ET Docket No. 04-186, DA 12-621.
2
Telcordia to create a registration record for the venue and provide the registrant with a registration 
number.  
OET will process registration requests for venues where large numbers of unlicensed wireless 
microphones are used in accordance with Section 15.713(h)(9) of the Commission’s rules, 47 C.F.R.
§ 15.713(h)(9).  In particular, entities responsible for venues of events and productions/shows that use 
large numbers of wireless microphones at well defined times that cannot be accommodated in the two 
channels specifically reserved for wireless microphones and other channels that are not available for use 
by TV bands devices (TVBDs) at that location may request protection of such venues through 
registration.  Entities seeking to register eligible event venues are required to certify that they are using 
the two reserved channels and other channels that are not available for use by TVBDs on which wireless 
microphones can practicably be used, including channels 7-51 (except channel 37) at the location of the 
venue.  As a benchmark, at least 6 – 8 wireless microphones should be operating in each channel used at 
such venues (both licensed and unlicensed wireless microphones used at the event may be counted to 
comply with this benchmark).  Registration requests that do not meet these criteria will not be granted.  
The Commission will make requests for registration that meet the threshold showing for acceptability 
available for public comment.  Registrations that are granted will be valid for one year, after which they 
may be renewed.  Registrations must include the following information.
- name of the individual or business that owns the unlicensed wireless microphones
- a postal address for the contact person
- an e-mail address for the contact person 
- a phone number for the contact person
- coordinates where the wireless microphones are used (latitude and longitude in NAD 83, 
accurate to +/- 50 m)
- channels used by the wireless microphones operated at the site and the number of wireless  
microphones used in each channel.
The registrant of an approved venue will then need to use the registration number provided by 
OET to access the Telcordia unlicensed wireless microphones registration facility at: 
http://www.telcordia.com/whitespaces to enter scheduling and channel information for the venue.
Questions regarding this Public Notice may be directed to Alan Stillwell at (202) 418-2470 or 
Hugh L. Van Tuyl at (202) 418-7506.
By the Chief, Office of Engineering and Technology.
-FCC-
